---
id: 1736544044-ccna-notes3-day9
aliases:
  - ccna-notes3-day9
tags: []
---

# ccna-notes3-day9
Switch interface

- Interface speed and duplex
- Speed and duplex autonegotiation
- Interface status
- Interface counters & errors

Network topology

Router interfaces have the shutdown command applied by default
=will be in the administratively down/down state by default

Switch interfaces do NOT have the ‘shutdown’ command applied by default
=will be in the up /up state if connected to another device
OR
in the down/down state if not connected to another device

command line:
show interfaces status


speed ?
show => choice

int f0/1
speed 100 => force 100 mbps operation


duplex ? (duplex mean can the device send and receive at the same time)

auto, full, half
duplex full

description ## to R1##

checking:
sh int status 

a-100 => auto- 100

- **interface range f0/5 -12**
description ## not in use ##
stutdown

e..g int range f0/5-6,f0/9-12
no stut

# Full duplex

Half duplex: The device cannot send and receive data at the same time. If
it is receiving a frame, it must wait before sending a frame.

e.g related , Hub
If device send the network at the sametime , collision happened => hub can't work normally

Full duplex: The device can send and receive data at the same time. [t
does not have to wait.

How to deal with collison?
CSMA/CD

Carvier Sense Multiple Access with Collision Detection
Before sending frames, devices ‘listen’ to the collision domain until t
detect that other devices are not sending.
If a collision does occur, the device sends a jamming signal to inform
the other devices that a collision happened.
Each device will wait a random period of time before sending frames again.
The process repeats.

- basically it seperate the region and create a jamming signal => if happened => wait random period of time

- hubs are simple repeaters which operate at layer 1

- devices attached to a hub must in half duplex

- switch can operate in full duplex

Etherne interface => 10
Fast ether interface => 10/100
Gigabit interface => 10/100/1000



What if autonegotiation is disabled on the device connected to the switch?

- SPEED: The switch will try to sense the speed that the other device is
operating at.

- If if fails to sense the speed, it will use the slowest supported speed
(ie. 20 Mbps on a 10/100/1000 interface)

DUPLEX: If the speed is **10 or 100** Mbps, the switch will use half duplex.
If the speed is 1000 Mbps or greater, use full duplex.
=> duplex mismatch = collision occur
- like 2 half duplex , 1 full duplex


---

- command : show interfaces

error like:

Runts: Frames that are smaller than the minimum frame size (64 bytes)
Giants: Frames that are larger than the maximum frame size (1518 bytes)
CRC: Frames that failed the CRC check (in the Ethernet FCS trailer)
Frame: Frames that have an incorrect format (due to an ervor)
Input errors: Total of various counters, such as the above four
Output ervors: Frames the switch tried to send, but failed due to an ervor

---

# lab

